---
title: 'Astronomer Software v0.31 release notes'
sidebar_label: 'Astronomer Software'
id: release-notes
description: Astronomer Software release notes.
---

<!--- Version-specific -->

0.31 is the latest stable version of Astronomer Software, while 0.30 remains the latest long-term support (LTS) release. To upgrade to 0.31, see [Upgrade Astronomer](upgrade-astronomer.md). For more information about Software release channels, see [Release and lifecycle policies](release-lifecycle-policy.md). To read release notes specifically for the Astro CLI, see [Astro CLI release notes](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/release-notes).

## 0.31.0

Release date: December 7, 2022

### New root user role

Astronomer Software's role-based access control (RBAC) system now supports a single root user for each installation. The root user has a non-configurable username and autogenerated password stored as a Kubernetes secret in your installation. 

See [Manage the root user](manage-root-user.md).

### Manage Astronomer users through a SCIM integration 

Astronomer Software now supports managing users through System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM), which allows you to automatically provision and deprovision users based on templates for access and permissions. See [Manage users with SCIM](integrate-auth-system.md#manage-users-with-scim).

### Invite users only through Teams

Using the new root user feature, you can now configure Astronomer Software so that users are managed exclusively through Teams. This helps you better integrate with your identity provider (IdP) by ensuring that all users on your platform are authenticated and managed through the IdP. See [Disable individual user management](import-idp-groups.md#disable-individual-user-management).

### New default resource limits and requests 

Astronomer Software 0.31 includes new default resource limits and requests on the following resources: 

- Alertmanager
- Elasticsearch
- NATS
- PostrgeSQL
- STAN
- Nginx
- Grafana
- Blackbox exporter

You might experience OOMKill errors or unexpected behavior after upgrading if you use resources beyond the new default limits. To minimize disruption, view resource usage for these components in [Grafana](grafana-metrics.md) prior to upgrade and compare this usage to the default resource limits in the [Astronomer Helm chart](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/charts/astronomer/values.yaml). 

If your current usage is expected and higher than the default resource limits, update the limits in your `config.yaml` file before upgrading to Astronomer Software 0.31.

### Additional improvements 

- You can now set a custom security context for `es-client` by setting `elasticsearch.client.securityContext.capabilities.add={}` in the ElasticSearch Helm chart.
- The **Deployment users** page is now paginated in the Software UI.
- You can now set `astronomer.registry.logLevel` to filter which types of logs appear in your Docker registry.
- The default Git-sync interval is now 1 instead of 0.
- You can now configure a Deployment to have 0 triggerer components.
- You can now set `astronomer.houston.config.useAutoCompleteForSensativeFields=false` to disable autocomplete on sensitive fields in the Software UI.
- You can now set `astronomer.houston.config.shouldLogUsername=true` to include user email addresses in audit logs for logins through the Houston API.
- [Git sync-based Deployments](deploy-git-sync.md) now have a dedicated git-sync relay pod, service, and network policy.
  
### Bug fixes

- The Software UI now stores user tokens with `httpOnly` and `secure` flags.
- Fixed an issue where the Software UI would occasionally show an incorrect **Extra AU** number for Deployments. 
- Fixed the following vulnerabilities:

    - [CVE-2022-37601](https://security.snyk.io/vuln/SNYK-JS-LOADERUTILS-3043105)
    - [CVE-2022-43680](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2022-43680)
    - [CVE-2022-40674](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2022-40674)
  
- Fixed an issue where you could not access Astronomer Software's Docker registry if you had access to more than 100 Deployments. 
- Fixed an issue where the Software UI did not show the correct last used dates for service accounts. 
- Fixed an issue where NATS would send false Deployment alert emails.
- Fixed an issue where the configuration in `astronomer.houston.updateRuntimeCheck.url` was ignored if not all supported Deployment image versions were present in the destination URL. 
